Shrapnel coated the thicket as sickly smog draped the skies with the smell of anguish and death. The breezy air whistled and the striking of rubber on a carpet of shards answered back, chased by a distant pitter-pat or the thunderous crack of hell unleashed someplace nearby. This was no longer Earth: these were the lifeless dunes of some Asimovian future where humans were no more. The choking smoke billowed for what seemed like forever, until the clacking of rubber abruptly stopped. Slowly, staggered, gaspingly, the still air circulated for the first time in months. Beyond the faceless helmets, they were human again. Human enough to see, or perhaps shed a tear or two. The first humans back in this dying world, and the last. 

It was not the Great War that shook the world for decades nor its even more perilous cousin; neither the Thirty Years’ War nor the Troubles, and not even the Russo-Ukrainian War rumbling the ever so fragile world today. History fortunately holds no record of such an atrocity — but it may very well be in our near future.

War is a delicate matter, for both those locking horns in combat and those anxiously watching from the sidelines. And yet, as we have seen time and time again, after every “war to end all wars”, we seem to continue to bicker and point fingers until fate twists tension into tragedy and disaster erupts yet again. Millions of livelihoods are smothered into ashes and gusted away, where those fortunate enough may be able to pick up the pieces again and those less so may find their privileged time on the “universe’s only paradise of life” ended prematurely, left forever as scars from this reign of terror on society. 

Despite the death toll from this bloodshed lingering around “less than 100,000” (Our World in Data) — far less than the wars of yesteryear, the magnitude of loss is far greater: consider the fact that every person is closely connected to tens of others and distantly to hundreds more; this means even the death of one person is enough to rupture and wound even some of the most tight-knit communities — what of a loss of thousands degree more? And if it is so apparent how painful war may be, why do we continue to approach the war between Russia and Ukraine today with the same failed approach that has pushed the world to endure the torment of warfare time and time again?

If we acknowledge the fact that we need a new approach, perhaps assessing the context of this recent European bloodshed may uncover a solution. Tensions between the two ex-Soviet nations had been boiling for nearly a decade, catalyzed by a forced takeover of the Crimean Peninsula in 2014. That stern twinkling for power in the eyes of the Kremlin was reciprocated by a stern glare for years but quietly continued to simmer — even still, far too long for peace to remain unpunctured. Malaysia Airlines, stricken by the tragedy of MH370 months prior, saw the loss of the nearly 300 passengers and crew of flight MH17 by a near annihilation of the aircraft by a deliberately fired Buk warhead, as the cockpit was fractured and “hundreds of shrapnel fragments [pierced] through the fuselage” as its frame fell apart and the doomed craft descended to Earth one final time. The world’s leaders began to point fingers and a familiar rancor emerged again, but eventually interest fell dormant save for the few Dutch prosecutors who slowly combed their way through the case. This would not be the last casualty of these tensions, and not the last time the world would nonchalantly ignore them. [more?] 

As the late Queen Elizabeth celebrated her Platinum Jubilee, the then Wordle-obsessed world would soon be wracked by one final gambit on February 24th, 2022, when following a globally televised speech what was thought as the impossible happened: tens of thousands of Russian troops trekked their way into Ukraine and began the bloodiest European conflict since World War II that has continued into the present day with no end in sight. 

Signs of this threat were clear previously, as for months leader Vladimir Putin had been amassing swathes of troops at the Ukrainian border, spouting threats and utterrances of unfairness. Even still, we simply sat cozily and watched that little terror unfold into a nightmare. Should we have intervened? Perhaps not. With tensions already skyrocketing since the Cold War, even the smallest of threats could unravel that already tense peacetime into more bloodshed or worse, nuclear apocalypse. [some sort of quote from experts on what should have been done?] But was this all preventable? Absolutely.



Every conflict -- whether that be political turmoil, decade-long bloodshed, or simply whatever oddball headliner fate decides to hurl at the world from time to time -- is far more intricate than it appears at first. The first indictment of a former American president in centuries seems deathly detrimental for the poor soul fallen from grace, yet not so when that person is Donald Trump in a heavily divided society. 



Discuss why RUW is very important/influential.
Fringe/undiscussed effects of RUW
(I - what has come of the past on RUW?) and (II - what does RUW entail for future?)
Counterarg: “many of these undiscussed effects are rightfully so; they aren’t that important and we should focus on the “big things” (Russia and Ukraine, preventing nuclear war, etc.); rebuttal: it’s exactly these effects that contribute to these big things. Focusing only on the big things is too narrow (discuss potential consequences).
Explain how our pitfalls have led to the state of RUW / unseen effects.
General, big idea way of approaching the future; tie back to war analogy
Finish war analogy (“it’s ANY war; what war will be forever”). Maybe a tie-in into hard SF too? (see The Dark Forest). Something something, “we will destroy ourselves” may very well come true.

